people ask me all the time what does it
take to be happy
and i always tell them it's really
simple
one word progress
progress equals happiness if you keep
growing you're going to feel alive and
if you keep growing you're going to have
more to give and when you're growing and
giving is when life is magnificent it
doesn't matter how many statues oscars
they give you or emmys or how much money
you have in the bank we've all seen
people had all those things and i get
the phone call because they're depressed
or somebody commits suicide in that area
so it's really an inner game and i think
that's what's missing for us today
everybody's focusing on the outside
world and how there's a lot of things
the outside world you'll never be able
to control you can influence but you
can't control it
tony robbins welcome to the show man
good to see you again tom it's been a
while dude so good it's been way too
long i am really excited to catch back
up i know uh with covid everything just
gets crazy
but watching how you've moved not only
through covid but starting before that
with money master the game
you really inspired me to think even
professionally to think very differently
about how i was trying to help people
and that's really where i want to start
i think we're going to talk about a lot
of things today a lot of them oriented
towards the future but all with this
idea of how you
you've really started looking at what
are the most important things that
society could be focused on and then
writing these incredible tones
that you're delivering to people that
are life-changing and you know i think i
told you before that when i read money
mass of the game of course at the end
you get into that really emotional bit
and like i you had me a mess
and
i was really blown away by how you're
trying to bring these big ideas to
people and now with the new book
upcoming which i have not read full
disclosure and we couldn't get a copy of
it but it's not out yet we'll have in a
few days i'll send you one
dude please because i know i know some
of your stance on regenerative medicine
but walk me through what was the idea
behind
going into these big buckets
is it just that this is what you think
humanity needs or is there something
else driving this
well no i you know i've always taught
all the areas i thought matter i mean
there aren't
if you look at a person's life most
people major in minor things jim rohn my
teacher used to say that to me all the
time meaning they know about all kinds
of things that don't matter but there's
maybe a half dozen things that matter
most there's your body there's your
emotions there's your relationships
there's your finances there's your
career or your sense of mission or your
business and then there's the spiritual
side of life and so i've always thought
on all those areas but in 2008 when all
hell broke loose the first time um you
know i've worked with paul tudor jones
one of the top 10 financial traders for
now 25 years 26 years
and so i knew a little bit in this area
most people don't know i know the
details of you know a lot man hearing
you talk about finance you are
freakishly knowledgeable i've seen you
on stage with people that make a living
doing it and not only do you keep up in
many ways i think they're listening to
you as closely as you're listening to
them at this point how do you
learn that stuff that deeply
well you know yeah i go for total
immersion it's like if you learn
language a little bit at a time you know
two three years from now you don't speak
the language but if i dumped you into
rome and said you're not leaving for
eight weeks and there's no teacher
you're going to be speaking italian
before you leave there so i'm a big
believer in total immersion but i also
believe in modeling the best on earth so
in money master the game
fortunately i have access so it's like
i'm going to interview 50 of the
smartest financial people on earth and
everybody who's made it from nothing to
multi-billionaire and they all did it
different ways and i'm good at pattern
recognition and i'm good at pattern
utilization in fact i would say to your
audience you know in 2040 which sounds
like a long way from now 18 years ago
like that you your mind will be blown
half the jobs we have today according to
oxford and a variety of other
universities are going to be gone
they're replaced by robotics by
algorithms you know the game and so the
bottom line is you need to be good at
pattern recognition and that's what gets
somebody strong at anything i mean you
look at you know why is
amazon doing so well he realized one
pattern was valued over anything else
convenience right if you look at tom
brady friend of mine he knew he's got
pattern recognition like nobody else at
43 years old he's able to do things no
one dreamed could be done he's got more
super bowl rings than any team
so i said i want to go to the best
people on earth and see what do they see
that none of us see what's the pattern
then you gotta learn pattern utilization
it's one thing to see it's nothing to
use it and then if you're good after a
while you get to pattern creation it's
like if you learn to play the piano most
people play other people's music and
there's a point you've learned so much
that you're able to create and i think
those three skills the most important
skills so i look at the areas that
matter most and say who already has that
extraordinary pattern recognition
utilization so if i go to ray dalio
who's you know return more money to
investors than anyone alive you know
he's going to have a different level of
understanding than the average person
and because i immerse myself so much
most of these interviews are supposed to
be 30 minutes and the average one was
three and a half hours and so but like
ray dalla is now a dear friend of mine i
can pitch and catch with him because i
came so over prepared and because i
could again not just catch the ball he
threw but pitch it back and so to me
that's what i did i did for total
immersion it was a three and a half year
project and then expanded i wrote you
know unshakable after that because i saw
what was going to happen in the markets
and i wanted people prepared and that's
why i'm doing a life force right now
life force was driven
because i've always taught health
elements you and i both are both kind of
bio hackers in our lives i have to be
you know my average seminar is 12 or 13
hours a day i go four days minimum over
the last few years i've had all these
groups that measure olympic athletes and
professional athletes measure me and
give you an idea i burn 11 300 calories
in one day on stage no one believed i
didn't believe it either but i do i
bring 4 000 before i get on stage chess
masters burn 4 000 without moving so
that's basically what happens but i also
to give you an idea i push my body you
know lactic acid if you're running with
a friend
and you get where you can't speak
anymore you're the four of lactate i'm
in an 18 of lactate and still speaking
they just couldn't believe it i have 15
pounds more of lean body mass than the
average lineman does in the nfl so
the demands i jump a thousand times in a
day on average is what they measured i
weigh 282 pounds so they're explaining
to me every time i come down it's four
times your body weight so a thousand
times a thousand is a million pounds of
pressure per day and i've been doing
that for 45 years
so if you saw my bone density they
showed a telegraph and i go these are
humans these are the greatest olympic
athletes this is something we never
mentioned before it's 99.999
stronger than anything they've measured
of any human
so those demands are huge but then you
know i'm still not infallible so i go
snowboarding
and i'm chasing a 22 year old which the
ages as much as the skill a lot more
skill than i had
and oh my god i had an accident i tore
my rotator cuff so bad nine nine pain
wouldn't go away
went to all the doctors he needs surgery
what's the recovery time four to you
know four months to six months and like
i have friends who still can't bring
their shoulder down and i've had a lunge
re-injure it and so i went and looked
around and it's what started me really
on this is
i said okay what are my other options
what about stem cells i met dr bob
ferrari he's kind of like the one of the
founders of stem cells
oh you know bob he did those original
studies so they took old rats and give
them young rat's blood we've all heard
about it now and vice versa and the old
rats got young and young rats got old
kind of vampire stuff but as a result
they discovered stem cells and what they
could do and bob said tony you won't get
them here
go this place in panama you'll get four
day old stem cells that are from the
core they're not obviously fetal cells
in any way i wouldn't do that and i went
down the first day i felt okay the
second day i felt really tired the third
day i woke up not only was my shoulder
perfect and i mean perfect in three days
i could do anything with it i've never
having i've had the mri but i had had
spinal stenosis
for about 14 years and i woke up for the
first time in my life without back pain
i know everything about breakthroughs in
medicine i want to know precision
medicine i want to know regenerative
medicine and then i was invited by the
pope to come speak believe it or not the
pope has the biggest stem cell
conference in the world he does it every
two years and i got invited to be the
cleanup speaker in a four-day program
and i was like i'm not just going to do
cleanups because i'm going to go attend
the whole thing and i met doc's doing
things that
you would think are gonna happen 20 or
30 years in the future sounds like total
future stuff that's happening either
right now or in the next 24 to 36 months
so i've spent the last three years
interviewing 165 different doctors
bob herrera and nobel prize winners bob
ferrari co-wrote the book with me along
with peter diemandez both are md's
peter's a rocket scientist as well and
so together we put this book together so
that i could do the same thing bring
people the very best of what to do now
what are your alternatives what are your
choices what's proven what's not yet but
what's coming and i'm really excited
about it's a book i really wrote it not
only for the person who's reading it but
i don't know about you every day of my
life at this stage of my life i have a
lot of friends and a lot of people i
know i get a call from somebody who's
got you know they've had a stroke or
somebody's got cancer and it's terminal
supposedly and you know i've seen them
turn around again and again or
somebody's in a position where you know
they've got a parent who's got
alzheimer's they don't know what to do
and so i put in one book the greatest
answers from the greatest scientists on
earth of what's available right now as
well as what's coming in the short term
not the long term who knows the long
term long term of all kinds of pieces
but i'm excited to bring it to people it
comes out on february 8th people can
pre-order it it's called it's called
life force this is it right here i'll
say this baby yeah please that'd be
amazing i am uh beyond fascinated by the
cutting edge of medical science and so
i'm so i know uh both bob and peter
diamandis and have had some of the talks
around stem cells but i'm really curious
as you've gone you know well beyond just
those guys
what what is the most exciting thing
coming at the cutting edge of medicine
is it stem cells is it something else no
it's it's understanding that the aging
process is the breakdown of
communication between the cells
dr david sinclair from harvard is
probably the number one expert in the
world there's something called yamanaka
factors which is a way of turning on the
body's original systems you know we all
know that we have as time goes by
you know you have
most people are familiar with their dna
but of course dna or your genome that is
not your destiny what matters is the
system that runs that
and so if you're the epigenome is what's
that called if people aren't familiar
with it and the epigenome gets messed up
meaning has time radiation bad food bad
lifestyle it irritates and all of a
sudden the communication is not so clear
but there are ways of restoring it so
they restored three out of four of these
yamanaka factors just recently at
harvard university and they took
mice that are blind now they have
glaucoma so the nerves are gone and they
reverse the aging
and they can see again it's the first
time in history the nerves actually
re-grew
regroup
gene there's gene therapies right now
the people that are being able to see
again for the very first time i mean
there's there's something called the
wind pathway you may have heard of wnt
pathway i heard about this for the first
time three and a half years ago when i
was at the vatican this man walks out
and you know i'm sitting beside sanjay
gupta who's a you know pretty informed
guy really great guy and dr oz are both
good friends of mine
and he's a research and he's really
quiet there's no hype and then he starts
to describe how they you know figured
out the code of the wind pathway in the
wind pathway after you're born
and the first seven to ten days if you
cut off a child's finger and you don't
sew it back up you'll regrow just like a
salamander's tail
but then after that time we don't have
fetal tissue anymore everything else you
call you is coming from this with
signaling pathway it tells the stem
cells make this many brain stem cells
heart stem cells etc and for 30 years
pharmaceutical companies been trying to
figure out the breakthrough this
particular company has figured out
breakthroughs now they're in fa you i'm
sure you know phase one is safety at the
fda phase two is efficacy and phase
three is efficacy at scale and then you
get approved so they're there at the end
of phase two about to begin phase three
they think they hope by the end of this
year they'll be done but in the
preliminary information here's one of
their treatments one injection single
injection
and if you have osteoarthritis
over the next 10 to 12 months you regrow
all your tendons brand new from stem
cells and it's from a new epigenome you
know like when they made dolly you know
the the when they duplicated it you know
uh machine way back right
well how did this old sheep create a
brand new sheep without all those
problems because the epigenome gets
reset
so they figured out how to make that
happen through your wind pathway and it
has all kinds of impact there's eight
different cancers that they're working
on treatments for there are things that
will just blow your mind so i couldn't
give you one thing there's spring on
stem cells like you know most people
don't know it but if a fireman or
policeman or someone falls into a fire
and you burn your face off we've all
seen people who are scarred for life the
standard treatment is to put cadaver
skin on there for you to try to keep you
alive and make things go
they now have in seven hospitals united
states where they can take your stem
cells and spray them on your face and i
have them in the book the pictures will
blow your mind from grotesque to you
could barely tell anything happened in a
period of three weeks
i mean it is mind-boggling so there are
things that can increase your energy
right now there is a study being done
you probably are familiar with the fact
as i started to say that your breakdown
happens in the epigenome
but also the energy centers of your body
start to get weaker over time and there
are now new discoveries of how to
stimulate the body so that that
epigenome cleans itself off like gets
rid of the static makes it clean again
in other words does repair
while simultaneously firing off the
furnaces of energy in your body and one
of the studies have been a lot of animal
studies obviously and they don't always
translate
so you have to be careful about animal
studies they're intriguing but we don't
know for sure to do with humans and in
the animal studies you're in an old rat
which for how many months it is but
let's call it a 60 year old rat would be
the equivalent for a human
it can run like a quarter of a kilometer
on one of those tracks a young rat can
run a full kilometer
the ones that they test here that are
older can run three to four kilometers
once they've had this for literally 20
days but what's really cool is it wasn't
supposed to be released but it's in the
book there's a group uh uh from the
special forces that was done in boston
they just finished the first study year
long and they're seeing similar results
with human beings so we'll know more but
they're not going for this as a
nutraceutical this is going for actually
a drug it should be easier as a
nutraceutical but most of those
hydrocephals don't last or not they
don't hold up this one they believe will
so
for energy for vitality for your mind i
mean there are it's more than you can
imagine it's 700 pages that give you an
idea like you said i write totally yeah
these are getting longer and longer here
tony uh which is amazing by the way and
the way that you're approaching it going
after the experts and also that this is
stuff that you're already immersed in
you know the fact that you're taking
your own injury and turning that into
something and a few years ago and maybe
i was worrying for nothing but i
um i was worried about your voice
and it seems like you've made progress
there um
are what are you doing yourself with all
of this stuff is are you doing regular
stem cell treatments are they general or
do you get like injections specifically
into the shoulder into the vocal cords
like how does this work no my my
shoulder is perfect i don't have to do
anything new as far as that's concerned
but i do uh stem cell treatments i i'm
you know i'm testing things out all the
time there's a new form of them called v
cells and it's very small embryonic-like
stem cells or a discovery that only came
out about 13 years ago is this an iv
drip like how are we getting them in the
system yes this would be an iv drip in
this case they can also do injections
along the edge of your spine or
something that nature but what i'm
interested in this one is
you probably know some of the tests now
like true age that can say okay
chronologically i'm 61 years old
but biologically i'm only 51 right uh
and dr sinclair's example he's fifth uh
he's 53 but his biology is 33.
he looks young as hell it's crazy he
really does and his dad was in his 80s
who was falling you know falling apart
now goes jogging and running everything
else so he like gives it to his dog so
i'm pretty i'm tied to the hip just like
did on the financial side to these guys
i learned from so that i'm on a cutting
edge and i'm utilizing those tools
wherever i can but you know i have to
keep this body in unbelievable shape
because of the demands that i make and
when you know when we went through the
covet thing where all of a sudden
overnight imagine when what you do for a
living is fifteen to thirty thousand
people in a stadium and suddenly
everywhere on earth they go you can have
ten people or five or none
i mean literally overnight be canceled
everything and so it's like people need
me how am i gonna help them and i wanna
watch somebody do a little webinar with
like 252 inch screens i was like i'll
kill myself first i mean you've been in
my event it's got to be an experience
it's got to take you it's got to have
the rock and roll emotion and feeling
and so i sat down with my buddies and
and my team and i put out tape recorder
i said here's what i'm going to do but
first i said we're going to vegas
they'll never shut down vegas of course
they did then i went okay
you know i'll do this in 1500 movie
theaters with 10 people each around the
country by satellite and they shut down
the movie theaters so i finally was like
okay i got to reach people in their
homes but make it as dynamic as if they
were there in person so i was like okay
we're going to build i'm going to find a
building with 40 foot high ceilings i'm
going to do 20 foot high led screens
0.67 highest resolution in the world 50
feet wide 180 degrees around me i'm
going to call it eric beyond at zoom and
say i need to upgrade what you're doing
with zoom so i can interact with people
on a larger scale not just you know a
thousand or five thousand hundred
thousand i want to build a software so
that people can shake it and it sends a
signal so the clapping's authentic it
gets louder as people do whatever the
case may be
and did the whole thing brought seven
companies together and said we got to
build this and they said this is a big
project
maybe in nine months i said no you got
nine weeks went through got rid of a lot
of the people and we pulled it off and
so i've seen more people this year and
last year
in these events because i have people
from 195 countries every country in the
world participating and every time zone
two if you can imagine i'm starting at
10 a.m in florida and it's midnight in
australia right and these people are
going from midnight till
one of the afternoon the next day four
or five days in a row and staying
completely engaged and saying they have
the time of their life so we kind of
cracked the code now i do both
i did a hybrid event the other day date
with destiny i lifted the front wall
that's why i picked a building with 40
foot high ceilings i could see people in
97 countries and right in front of me i
had another thousand people so we're
reinventing what does it take so we can
help people where they live yeah i want
to zoom in on the moment where they say
maybe in nine months but even that is
probably gonna be tough and you're like
no no we have to go to nine weeks
that that is the thing that uh is the
difference
between people that struggle in life and
people that can do extraordinary things
so one there's two parts of this i
really want to get both one where do you
get the hutzpah to believe that you can
pull that off and then two
from an execution standpoint how do you
actually pull it off because it you
hinted at
the people that don't believe have to go
and so
walk me through that on on both of those
points if you don't mind well i'm happy
to but you're an example this yourself
and i'm not blowing smoke that's how you
built a billion dollar company you and i
are philosophically aligned obviously
known each other for years where do they
get the huts but from it's not my kutz
but it needs to be done
it's like i'm mission driven if you're
if you're just doing something for
yourself i don't i don't need to work
another day of my life you know i mean
it's like okay i can sit home and have a
good time but you know i got a mission
so it's like people need us right now
they don't need us nine months from now
and then it's a matter of finding like
you said other people that are super
skilled and are mission driven also that
bought into the mission of helping
people not just we're gonna build a
studio and we're gonna we're gonna
create an environment where people all
over the earth can be come together as
friends and family we're going to see
them in their homes there's going to be
advantages that we don't have in a live
event i can see their children i can see
their husband or wife i can see how they
live and where they are
and so you know i would say out of all
the companies we started with we ended
up with probably half of them still
working on the project we brought in new
people and it's your willingness also to
call it straight like when somebody
doesn't own it
you you got to call it tight and you got
to move on now otherwise you're going to
have a few weak people or weak
organizations or weak structures
that will destroy the rest of your
mission and so you're so loving i'm
willing to do that yeah how do you
specifically tony robbins who loves
people is very kind you obviously are
also good at no [__] but in that
moment
are you just like look you you don't
make the cut you gotta go or do you have
like a specific speech i've seen you do
really hard things in your live events
but like what what are you thinking in
that moment because it'll it'll be hard
on their business and it's going to be
emotionally difficult for them how do
you navigate those moments i don't take
somebody out who still has enough drive
and desire and hunger
um then it's just a matter of coaching
them on skills or finding a solution
together but when i find somebody who no
longer believes or is no longer certain
if you're on a team with me and we're
you know
we're the golden state warriors or let's
say the old days you know with michael
jordan you know the weakest link is
going to keep us from the mission so i
have to value the mission more than this
individual they can become a client of
mine i invite them to my seminars help
them do whatever it is but i got to move
on now because there's just no way we
could have done everybody around us that
this is impossible but i found a few
people that thought their part wasn't
impossible and then you know put them
all together with a higher mission i
mean just like for example date with
destiny lifting these walls sounds like
a simple thing but they weigh kelly
knows how many thousands of pounds
and the you know covet you know you've
got all the problems with the breakdown
of being able to access something
overseas so i sent planes on people
overseas we're getting things we did it
all in less than a week to be able to
actually lift those and then i told my
platinum partners which is my audience
they said listen it's a backstage pass
you're not going to see them you're
going to see me on screens and people at
a giant event on this size they watch me
on screens anyway but you'll be together
and then we surprised them and it was
like the music came up to a thx type
sound you lift it up and they were just
out of their mind you know so it's also
about creating experiences creating
moments for people that they won't
forget that's incredible i so you went
quick over it but i know moments like oh
i'm gonna have to send a plane here to
grab that to talk to this person i know
those moments and there's a phenomenal
quote you might remember it i'm going to
paraphrase it
which is
the reasonable man conforms to the world
the unreasonable man bends the world to
his will therefore all progress depends
on the unreasonable man my favorite
quote oh my god it's so good and i'm
always telling people on my team like
because people often look at me and say
like you're being unreasonable yes but
like literally we all limit our we don't
even try because we think something is
impossible and therefore you guarantee
that it is it is literally shocking how
much farther you can go when you my wife
and i call it no [__] what would it
take just like ins you you put yourself
in problem solving mode rather than
problem finding mode which most people
live there and you're just like okay
there is a solution it might not be
something i'm willing to do but there is
a solution and when you get into that
mode and then actually have the
willingness to keep going it's freakish
what you can accomplish but most people
just never let themselves be that
aggressive
yeah i think i have a philosophy i teach
everybody on all my teams i have 105
companies now it's mind-boggling and all
these dramatically different industries
we're now doing almost seven billion
dollars in business i had no business
background but it's a certain core
philosophy that allows you to grow
anything
but it starts with the people themselves
and my whole thing is one choice is no
choice two choices the dilemma there's
always three choices like you said i may
not like the choice but it's there but
more importantly i think it's getting
people
to
see that
what they thought was possible
impossible is possible the more you can
give people an experience like talk's
cheap but i've done enough things in my
life with enough people at this stage
i've got a track record where it's like
i said it's going to happen
most people say he's probably true it's
probably likely he's going to pull it
off maybe i should jump on board but the
mindset has to be destroy any limitation
and move forward move forward move
forward there is a way move forward and
i think uh if you watch this it's like
taking off on a plane from you know i'm
in texas right now if i flew from dallas
here to go to hawaii you're of course
about 90 of the time i'm a pilot and
what if every time you of course oh my
god i'm of course oh i should freak out
oh my god i'm off course again but you
know you just tack back and forth and
you land exactly where you want to be
three four five thousand miles you know
away and i think that's how we have to
navigate but most of us and especially
during these coveted times
most of us have been conditioned not to
take a risk people ask me all the time
what does it take to be happy
and i always tell them it's really
simple
one word progress
progress equals happiness if you keep
growing you're going to feel alive and
if you keep growing you're going to have
more to give and when you're growing and
giving is when life is magnificent it
doesn't matter how many statues oscars
they give you or me's or how much money
you have in the bank we've all seen
people had all those things and i get
the phone call because they're depressed
or somebody commits suicide in that area
so it's really an inner game and i think
that's what's missing for us today
everybody's focusing on the outside
world and how there's a lot of things
the outside world you'll never be able
to control you can influence but you
can't control it
this your mind your emotions your body
you have a hundred percent control over
what you do with these things and that's
where the game is won you win the inner
game then you win the outer game a lot
of people spent their life trying to win
the other game they won and they're
miserable
so to me success without fulfillment is
the ultimate failure and so many people
are focused on success still which to me
is like there's nothing wrong with it
but it's like success is getting what
you want
fulfillment is living what you're made
for
you know and it's like fulfillment and
success they're not even the same
universe there's nothing wrong with
going for success but
you really got to figure out what you're
made for and nobody knows in the
beginning
so you start where you are and you do
what's in front of you do what's next
and you keep growing until you start to
discover
hey this is my real passion this is my
real hunger and drive and it can change
people go for five six seven years and
then they usually question
their business their career their their
body their relationships
and then one of two things happens they
change direction and feel renewed or
they go no i got a great deal here what
the hell is wrong with me and they
recommit and they get stronger but
that's life and if you don't grow
i don't give damn how much you got going
for you're going to be miserable
no man i totally agree that's something
that i heard from you many years ago
that i've repeated so many times it's so
true i think the way that i first heard
you say it is progress is a foundational
pillar of human happiness yeah i was
like damn like that's so true that idea
of it just really sits at the foundation
i want to give you a tony robbins quote
and this is something going back to
something you were just saying that i i
agree with uh incredibly well or very
much which is
uh people have become hypnotized by a
culture of weakness and i was like damn
like tony's calling us out here
uh
i agree with that what
what is going on
and how do we shake out of it
well if you're a student of history
is a cycle of history that is plain as
day
good times create weak people
weak people
great bad times
bad times great strong people
strong people great great times this is
the cycle of history thousand years of
roman history there's a great book i
recommend anyone read i read in 1997
it's not a beautiful read but you need
to understand it it's called the fourth
turning or you could read the book
generations but it's about 700 pages 800
pages
uh you know bill clinton gave me that
book and that's where i started and it
explains how
our thinking our process is so affected
by the way we're raised generationally
the experiences we go through so let me
give you an example of why we're having
challenges today and why i'm more than
hopeful
let's say you were born in 1910 now
think about this way first remember i
talked about pattern recognition pattern
utilization pattern creation what gave
humanity its greatest jump in its
capacity was pattern recognition around
seasons
up until that time we were
hunter-gatherers barely able to survive
it all depend on what was happening in
the environment we were dependent on the
outside world
but once we understood the seasons that
planting in the springtime and then
taking care through the summer boy in
the fall you can reap and then there's
going to be winter you've got to hang on
to this stuff so you can survive once we
recognize that pattern humanity
transformed communities were created
eventually cities and countries and
states right so think of it this way
there's also a pattern of your history
as human
0 to 21 19 to 20 21 is a spring time
where everything's easy it's easy to
grow growth happens you don't have to do
squat your body grows life grows and
some of us had a more protected
childhood some of us had no protection
we had to step up and take care of
things we're seven or eight years old
but regardless overall it's a time in
which people look out for you you're
taught things you consume what you're
taught
but once you come 19 20 21 roughly and
sometimes it's 16 for some people 25 for
others but you get the picture
you enter a new season of life
you go to the summer time where you
start testing and go well this is what i
was taught but do i really believe this
[__]
you know this is what people say but now
i'm in a relationship you know and so
all of this this next 20 years is an
explosive growth period if you work at
it from 21 to 41.
from 42 to 62
is a reaping time if you planted really
in the spring and you pushed hard
through the summer you're going to reap
now if you didn't plant in the
springtime you're going to weep in the
season you know you're going to be like
i don't know any money or any time in
order to do where am i going
but that's a season of power that's when
you really start to be able to lead
companies businesses environments and so
forth and again some people get there
earlier some later but overall
generationally that's it and then 63 to
83 is
winter and that winter time is a little
different for somebody right now that
time is
maybe it's time i'm an elder in the
community now it's time for me to mentor
to communicate and if you're lucky it
goes 83 to say 103. or the oldest living
humans about 119 if you were lucky
enough to do that maybe you get an
extended period of time where you enter
the next springtime so there's seasons
that you got to understand because if
you plant in the winter i don't care how
hard you work you get no reward
if you bought a house sounds wonderful
in 2007 normally great 2007 probably not
so great you're probably just starting
to do okay in the last three or four
years right
so there's a timing to things there's a
timing in your life
there's also timing in history
so imagine you're born in 1910
when would you come of age 19 years old
what did you grew up with world war one
ended during that time the whole world
celebrated and the roaring 20s began and
you're in your teens
cars radios parties you can't wait to
turn 19 20 21 right and what happens for
that generation right at that stage of
life
the whole game the
wolves pull out from it and people are
jumping out of buildings the economy
goes to the floor we got the dust bowl
but it didn't end there
because what happened when they were 29
world war ii
and you and i are too young to know it
but those around know that it looked
like we were going to lose hitler was
storming across europe it looked like
life was we know it was over
and these people went overseas
and became heroes
they faced such unbelief they were they
were thought as flappers they thought as
weak they were a lot like a lot of
the generation that you see today you
know the you know z generation not so
much because they're just coming up
right but the millennial generation
by older people they see them as weak
you know their snowflakes they're this
and they're that but they have
technology they have insights and when
the outside world is demanding enough
not yet because they're still fearful
they will grow
and that's when things change and so the
season occurs so think about the
difference between the 30s and the 40s
versus the 50s
versus the 60s as we came after 63 into
an american summer is a different
mindset versus the 80s to the 2000 2010.
so we're right now halfway through
winter
we're in another winter it starts
financially now it's gone to health but
we're far from it it's going to be war
it might be cyber war it might be
full-on war but there's zero question
that china and the u.s are in a
collision course that's going to shape
the direction of humanity and so the
people that right now are alive today
are going to have to grow in that
environment i really think we're at a
season where there's going to be a whole
new level of growth and what i just want
to do is be one of the many sources that
can give people perspective because
here's the problem
a year ago people thought we were coming
out of you know got vaccines now and
we're coming out of covid and it's going
to be all over now people will cite it
but now after going through two years of
this
there's a lot of people now that no
longer have a compelling future like you
know people talking about new year's
resolutions most people don't even have
one because it's like they never follow
through anyway right but at least they
had something to look forward to they're
starting to get learned helplessness
learn helplessness when something is so
bad over and over again you start
thinking the problem's permanent no
problem is permanent
or you start thinking the problems
pervasive because i haven't handled my
finances my whole world's over because
my relationship's bad the whole world's
over your life is bigger than that or
all this is happening because there's
something wrong with me when you get to
that point you stop trying
and so my goal right now is to shake
that up for people people need a new
perspective and you can't do it by just
sitting and thinking you've got to move
your body you got to change your energy
and your focus because low level of
energy i don't think i'm getting how
smart you are you're not going to use
all your ability but if i get you into a
higher state of being mentally
emotionally physically then all of a
sudden you start remembering who you are
and you start coming up with answers
that you never even thought were
possible before
the idea of remembering who you are is
something incredibly powerful there was
a uh batman cartoon where he gets
amnesia and he gets put in like a a camp
basically a work camp and he can't get
out
and then one day and he feels stuck and
weak and you know afraid
and then he something happens i don't
remember what triggers his memory and he
remembers that he's batman and all of a
sudden just in remembering that he's
batman he then takes the actions to
fight his way out and look i know it's a
cartoon but
that has always resonated with me and
whenever i'm feeling anxious about
somebody something i always tell myself
remember who you are and there there's
so much power even though i know that
it's bs because i am also the guy that's
afraid
but there's something
human but you're really talking about
the most important concept and lasting
change identity
we all define ourselves in certain ways
and most of us defined ourselves years
ago and we haven't done an update and
now you're in an environment where
you're constantly told how bad it is how
terrible it is so that stimulates the
old part of the human brain the
fight-or-flight mechanism the part of
your brain is always looking for what's
wrong so you can hide from it you know
or you can fight it or you can freeze
and hope it doesn't notice or you can
run from it and so that part of her
brain is never going to make you happy
it's an important part there's no
saber-tooth tiger for us to run from
anymore or fight right not for most
people but now we get that about what
are people saying about me online or you
know or do i have enough money in a
country that even if you have very
little money in america even if you're
in quote unquote a poor environment you
know i i support i provide a hundred
million meals a year now i'm almost to a
billion meals now on 825 million meals
to give you an idea in the last seven
years so i'm into helping everyone i
possibly can but you got to help them
here and here too
you know so i use the food as the excuse
to get into here and here and start
showing people what's possible and i
think we're in a place right now where a
lot of people are in this learned
helplessness and they don't realize you
know if you
if if as an identity if identity is how
you've identified yourself
and you see yourself as a procrastinator
why because you procrastinate so many
points and disappointed you don't want
to be disappointed so now you're
procrastinator you're no longer
disappointed you feel certain you'll
never have your goals but you feel
certain that's what most people do in
their life but if you set let's say a
thermostat in this room at 78 degrees
and the temperature drops far enough
something's gonna happen because the
computer's gonna go hey you're a 78
degree or what are you doing here in 68
and the heaters kick on and suddenly you
get this drive i'm sure your listeners
or viewers have had this experience many
times their life we're finance not
another day now i'm changing this
relationship i'm losing this waiter i'm
gonna finally do something and then you
push push push now some people push push
push and they go beyond their comfort
zone beyond what they expect not their
goals
it's what they're used to it's their
comfort zone and let's say that 68
degrees is where they're used to
financially it's not what they want or
their relationship or spiritually or
physically and they grow to 88 98 99
degrees suddenly the brain goes hey hey
what are you doing here
you're you know you're you're not a 99
degree
and then all of a sudden the heaters
stop and you lose your drive and if
that's not about the air conditioners
kick on you start to sabotage and you go
what happened to my life so identity is
the number one thing i work to change
with people to expand it not to get rid
of it but expand your own sense of who
you really are and what you're capable
of and people think they're going to get
identity by
people say to me i have no self-esteem i
hate that word
so overused and abused i don't mean
self-esteem because when i was growing
up my parents said these terrible things
and those terrible things and i said
isn't it convenient you only remember
those things
you know they said a million things but
suddenly you honed in on those but let's
get real
someone can tell your whole life you're
a piece of crap but you say screw you
read between the lines and make your
life work
someone tell your whole life you're
beautiful you're intelligent you're the
smartest person in the world and you
don't believe it because self-esteem
doesn't come from what people say about
you self-esteem is earned within
yourself
it's esteem for yourself which only
comes by doing things that are
incredibly difficult and then your brain
goes this is who i am the reason i've
done firewalks for years i used to do
skydiving but you know it's hard to get
30 000 people in the middle of the air
above new york in the middle of the
night but the reason i did these
metaphors was because when someone does
something they once thought was
difficult or impossible and they get the
other side their brain goes if i get
myself to do this what else can i get
myself to do it changes their identity
when your identity expands your whole
world expands
dude fire walking at your event was
crazy
it was really cool because i had always
said to my wife i would walk across fire
for you and so at the event
at the event it is like you are trying
to [__] with people you are like you
spend hours warning about like how wrong
it could go you have to be so careful
and so i was like okay wait is he
trying to freak me out so this is like a
bigger deal and then as you're walking
up to it you feel the heat and you're
like oh [__] like these are actually hot
and the people start peeling out of line
right they just can't bring themselves
to do it and i'm like look i may end up
with charred stumps for feet
but i told my wife i would walk across
fire for her i'm walking across this
[__] fire it was really meaningful
like as one of those things then you
know and i get it and you guys try to
make it as safe as possible
but it really meant something to me to
to say like i told her i would do this
i'm doing this and then you do it it was
dope
you know you see people who go there go
i'm not gonna do this no matter what i'm
just coming for the seminar and other
people think i'm gonna do this and they
get out there and freak out like you
said they peel off but you were there by
the end you know about 99 people do it
we don't force anybody or push him to do
it but you go through so many changes in
here it's like that's what we need today
we need to re-engineer ourselves if
you've ever seen one of these baja races
you know a thousand miles in the desert
or you know there's a million different
races that if you took a normal car
you'd be out of it and probably die in
the first day or so
but what they've done is re-engineer the
shock absorbers the tight size of the
tires the engine system and we need to
re-engineer ourselves for winter we need
to re-engineer ourselves so that we can
thrive not just survive during this time
and that's what i'm seeing people do in
their life and their businesses i mean
it's it's been really
i know it sounds crazy but it's been one
of the more beautiful times i hate the
fear that's been generated in so many
people on dually i mean this cdc
themselves i wrote this in my book
there's a section in my health book and
i quote directly from the cdc what's the
number one risk factor other than age
eighty percent of people die of covet
seventy nine point eight percent are
overweight and obese extremely
overweight something you can easily do
something about nobody talks about and
number two is fear
because the anxiety makes people change
their breath they can't fully oxygenate
so it's like there's a lot within our
control if we just wake up but the
beautiful part of cove is a lot of
people waking up to what's possible
seeing where it is seeing how they could
change their entire business because
when things happen and they're going to
be unjust things it doesn't matter the
color your skin it doesn't matter your
age doesn't matter what country you're
from
injustice is everywhere it's going to
happen to all of us at various times
right or it may not just injustice just
like wow you got cancer i mean it's like
you know what i do to deserve this it
isn't like that it's not something you
earn by brownie points it's like okay
what am i going to do with what life has
brought me and my greatest growth that's
helped me help so many other people is
because you know someone tells me i got
a tumor in my brain and i'm going to die
and i'm like i don't accept that right i
got a tone rotator cuff and there's you
know you have to go through six months
of rehab i'm not gonna accept that
there's gotta be another way you know
and so and the things you can't control
you learn to learn how to accept and
learn from you know and so i think
covert has offered offered that
opportunity i'm reaching more people
because of it i'm touching more lives
i'm having an impact i you know my wife
and i have tried to have a child for
quite many years i have five grandkids
and i have uh four kids now five but i
have a nine month old now i have a 48
year old daughter and a nine-month-old
daughter give me my kids
that's incredible man that's the gift of
cover because i was home
let's give it another shot there you go
uh i want to hit you with another tony
robbins quote and
um this one i think sums up what you're
saying here
uh you cannot fear change and do
everything the way it's always been done
and
so fear you talk a lot about but man i
have people in my life that are older
than me and many of them they are
calcifying as they get older and i watch
what really serve them well in their 20s
and 30s and i may have
discussed this with you before but i'm
haunted by a quote that genius is a
young man's game and as a late bloomer
that never sat well with me but when you
look at people that win nobel prizes
it's almost always for work that they do
in their early 30s they get awarded in
their 60s but they did the work in their
30s
and
seeing how you're going after like
cutting edge stuff i know one of the
companies i think you sold it to apple
uh in the ar vr space if i remember
correctly
i've heard you talking about bitcoin for
years now
i know you know about nfts like it's
how are you so able to embrace change
and
how the hell do you stay this
enthusiastic in a world that changes
this fast
as you get older why are you not like so
many people are crippled by that they
just want things to stay the same
i think it was early on i realized you
know
one of the things you have to understand
about life is
everything changes and everything ends
and that kind of sounds heavy on the
front end but it's a truth
if everything changes and everything
ends number one it should make you
appreciate what you have right now
and then my view is what's next is
always better
if i make it so it's my job to make it
so and so i think you know for me i look
at it and say
you know when you said uh genius is a
young man's game i think it's total
[__] um i think
passion is the genesis of genius
if you've got enough passion you're
going to find answers nobody else does
but most people run out of fuel meaning
they get tired they get exhausted they
get burned out they get
you know the law familiarity they're
around something so much they take it a
little bit for granted and i've managed
to see something in myself that i've
found in every great leader that i've
ever respected and that is
i i value intelligence immensely but i
know really smart people can't fight
their way out of a paper bag
pragmatically right i'm sure you do too
what i see is the one common denominator
of people that are successful over a
lifetime is the sustained hunger
hunger
is the number one factor when i see
somebody i don't care about age they
aren't care what their background is if
they're hungry to improve to change to
make something happen
i mean if you look at richard branson
he's as hungry today in his late 60s as
he was at 16 years old and that [__]
starting virgin you know like my buddy
mark benioff you know he's like he's
kind of like in his early 50s right now
mark is more hungry today than when i
knew him 12 14 15 years ago when he was
first coming up with the idea of so i'm
gonna you know he went to one of my
seminars over and over again the ubw you
know which one he went there like four
or five times and you sit in the front
row he's a tall guy he introduced
himself and said you've convinced me i'm
gonna
leave this company i work for as an
employee here and i'm gonna go start
this new company called salesforce.com
and he says tony we're gonna do a
hundred million dollars in business
we're gonna change business now he's
doing whatever 30 billion right now
it's but it's because he hasn't lost the
hunger and i think
the law of familiarity is what destroys
a relationship
you get around somebody enough you love
them but you don't have the same passion
same aliveness and i'm just not willing
to settle for a life without passion and
aliveness that's just like there's so
much to learn there's so much to grow
there's so much to give and i'm i'm
wired to grow and give and i i think
anybody gets wired to grow and give is
going to have a really fulfilling life
it doesn't matter what you choose to do
you're going to be alive because you're
going to make progress and because you
made progress you have something to give
and we all
like some people think they just want to
get
but you get get get and it's pretty damn
boring and it doesn't really expand your
sense of identity of who you are but if
you're constantly growing and then
taking what you learn you're so excited
about it you share with other people and
their life gets better whether that be
software you make or dresses you design
or you know something you do in health
space that really gets people to enjoy
their food while they're eating well if
you have those passions and you keep
growing there's no limit it doesn't
matter what happens in the short term
with a pandemic or with a drop in the
economy or whatever the case may be
these are all temporary when you realize
life has lived in decades not in days
so one thing that i find really powerful
about what you teach is the need for
massive action you have this upcoming
breakthrough challenge uh that you're
doing for free
because what is it how are you
leveraging that to help people
concretize the stuff in their lives
i'll tell you where it started it
started in 2020 because about six months
of the year i hadn't figured out how to
reach people yet and do what i was going
to do
and there are just so many depressed
people we've seen the numbers now the
people that have been suicidal the
people that have the highest level of
drug overdoses in history happened this
last year
all this stuff we thought were going to
help ourselves with covered with these
shutdowns but we destroyed human beings
experience of life by making them
isolated and separated and alone and and
so
what can i do to help people and so i
was like i got to do a seminar for
people i'm going to do two three hours
and one day and just give people the
best i can to give them a jolt wake them
up and then i was like you know
everything i do is immersion you know
you know two three hours is great but
i'm gonna do five days and i'm gonna hit
every part of it first i'm gonna get
their energy up because without that
nothing else going to happen what do you
do with them physically so they have the
energy to do these things you know
otherwise it's just information and
information out i should do it when the
energy's there you're ready to rock and
roll and then what do i do with them to
make the changes in their emotions
because that's where all the power is
emotions cause wars they cause peace
they get you laid they make you get
married or have children they're
everything but if we don't know how to
run them and they run us we're in
trouble and it's like okay what can i do
for them financially what can i do in
their career or their business and so i
did this five-day event i offered it for
free
and i couldn't believe it we had 428 000
people that joined us the biggest man in
my life so then last year covent was
still going on i was like okay we're
gonna do one more and we had 875 000
people attend from 195 countries so i'm
doing one last one because i really
believe the covert thing is turning the
corner i pray that it is for all of us
and that the world opens up back up by
the end of this year i think people are
finally hitting their threshold where
i'm going to live with this i'm not
going to live in fear and so i'm going
to do one more and i'm doing here
january 25th so that people can start a
new year with some real energy because
you won't get that just sitting at home
you got to get a new perspective you got
to get out of it you got to get a change
in your energy and you need to have the
skills
so it's supposed to go 90 minutes each
day from 2 p.m on the 25th to the 29th 2
p.m eastern 11 a.m pacific but people
are coming from all over the world
um but it usually goes i should warn
people two hours to three hours because
i just want to give as much as i can and
people just are blown away by it i i'll
give you one example it's a really fun
one i could give you 10. you know maybe
100 but 10 off up my head but one in
particular that i really love because i
just saw this guy the other day
guy named matt in tisney is his name
this guy was in a car accident
he was in bed for seven years oh
on oxygen gained 700 pounds
i was told he would never be able to get
off oxygen again never get out of bed
because the seminar was
there on a laptop
and it was free
you just i didn't even have to go
anywhere he's in his bed now this guy
couldn't even get out of bed to go to
the bathroom so he's everything is wired
up to him been this way for seven years
in just the first two days he got so
shifted and desired that he started
doing these simple exercises we showed a
few people things they can do but he did
something he could do in his bed
within i think it was five weeks he got
off the oxygen
within eight weeks because then once you
go to the program you're part of our
communities we have a huge community
people all over the world support each
other and so he got out of bed made it
to the bathroom for the first time in
seven years walked for the first time in
seven years then drove a car for the
first time in seven years wow well he's
lost 258 pounds i said to him back then
i was like look
you've lost already i think was that
time 100 pounds or something like that i
said you lose another 50 or 100 pounds
you're going to be able to be mobile
you're going to be able to get in that
car you're going to be able to do things
and i said i'll fly you to palm beach
for my first live in person event upw
and you'll be my guest well
he called me up and says can i bring my
girlfriend because he now engaged it's
just unbelievable so he came to the
event he walked the fire and everything
else and it all started because you know
he never would ever go to an event a
million years he couldn't he couldn't
get out of bed and now look at his life
and now he's inspiring all these other
people around him right so it all
started with him coming to the challenge
and it's yeah and by the way it's free
it's not partially free it's totally
free
and you don't have to go anywhere so you
really don't have any excuse other than
you're not interested in your own life
for making it better in 2022 so you
don't want to miss this one so all you
got to do is go to breakthrough 2022.com
breakthrough22.com enroll yourself you
might think of like who's a friend or a
family member i want to go through this
experience with and you're welcome to do
that as well
that's incredible man
i want to know about this hat i've seen
you wear it now or at least that logo is
it just about luck or is there something
else no each of them have a different
little piece on them but what's
underneath most of this one doesn't have
it underneath it it says
uh says be a blessing and then it says
blessed
because that's my philosophy it's like
every day you know i said this giant
mission statement changed the earth
changed the world all the [__] you know
it's just like you know you know what i
want to do i just want to help
so every day my my prayer in the morning
is use me lord and then whenever i meet
people i just try to be helpful and it's
like sometimes you're helpful because
you can give them a tool or strategy and
turn things around and sometimes you're
helpful just because you can listen and
care and sometimes you're helpful
because you've got an insight they need
so to me it's just it's a philosophy of
life of be a blessing and you'll be
blessed that's what it's about and he's
a shamrock because it's not religious
it's just it's like yeah you get really
lucky when you're busy doing everything
you can to help other people
i love it man it's really incredible
dude thank you for being such a leader
in moving people into the future you've
for i mean over 40 some years have been
helping people shift state and think
about their mind and you've had such an
indelible impact on my life i'll never
be able to
state fully um how much you impacted me
at the darkest period of my life uh so
certainly eternally grateful but again
the
the way you've started biting into these
huge important topics is just incredible
and to see the passion that you're
approaching them with i'm uh i'm very
curious to have some conversations with
you about technology and where things
are going in the future uh i i am tony
i'm really blown away by you're you're
such an adept learner i think everybody
understands you're an extraordinary
communicator but you're you're
freakishly good at learning
and uh i don't hear you ever references
so i'll say it say it you are
very intelligent and so to have your
mind applied to these incredibly
difficult
um problems and then match that with
your ability to articulate them
really [__] extraordinary and uh yeah
i'm super grateful where where would you
be i wanted to say one i appreciate your
compliments very much when i say one
thing it really comes down to
anyone can learn anything if it's
important enough to you what makes it
important to me is not just my own life
it's like if i have a problem
my shoulder my neck whatever and i can
solve it i know that there are millions
of other people can be helped by it so
it's like my drive is not just for me
that wouldn't be enough because it's
easy to meet your own needs it's not
that difficult but if you can find
something that you care about more than
yourself your daughter your son your
family your business your mission your
community whatever it is that's really
the secret to energy and vitality and
strength and really learning and i think
the other thing is um
complexity is the enemy of execution
uh one of the things i want to do with
people during this challenge is take
things that seem so complex and make
them so simple so you do it if you have
a business and you got this huge complex
plan you hired a giant consulting firm
they put it all together it never gets
implemented you know you've been comfier
companies why because they make it so
complex and it's somebody else's plan
what i really want to do for people at
this challenge is get it really simple
things you can do right now to change
your life you can go to experience it
that day and then you get momentum day
one day two day three day four and all
of a sudden now what used to be hard to
do is easy to do and i think for anyone
you got to understand anyone can learn
anything
if you can just break it down to its
simple core and that's what i try to do
most
no man you do it so well where can
people um
follow along with you engage with you
online
yeah they just go to breakthrough
2022.com and i'll see you on january
25th of the 29th and then of course tony
robbins.com as well
i love it brother thank you so much for
this channel
i'll send you the book i'll be excited
to hear what you think of it i think i
know you'll be excited i i am very eager
to read that for sure so yeah thank you
very much and uh thank you for joining
and everybody for the love of god read
everything that this man has ever
written you could watch you could
literally just blindfold yourself and
pick any youtube video that he's in it
will blow your mind this man has changed
my life more than virtually anybody uh
and i am confident that if you take
action uh he will have the same impact
on you and speaking of things that will
have a grand impact if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace